# 2.1 Getting help

In Nodegoat we can flag problems and leave notes for each other in
entities, ties, and passages:

* **Note (Private):** Here you can leave notes for other
 data collectors about decisions you have made, points of uncertainty
 etc. These are not visible in the public interface.

* **Commentary:** Here you can add commentary that will
 appear in the public interface and help general users understand the
 context for the data, points of uncertainty etc.

* **Attention Required?** Default is 'no'. Change to 'yes'
 when the data requires attention from an expert. This is the best way
 to flag issues that cannot be resolved at the time. Always clearly
 explain what the problem is using **Note** and include
 your name or initials.

* **Checked?** Default is 'no'. Change to 'yes' when the
 data has been checked.

* **Modified?** Default is 'no'. Change to 'yes' if you
 have changed data that had previously been checked and you think that
 someone might want to find it later, but there are no issues that
 would warrant using **Attention Required?**.

* **Add to Public Interface?** Default is 'no'. Change to
 'yes' only when all data for that text has been checked by an expert
 (usually Greta). **[When 'yes' is selected, the tie and its entities will be visible in the public interface].** (The server
 typically requires an hour to update.) **Entities that appear only in unchecked ties will be visible in the public interface if they have attributes that are used in ties that appear in the public interface.**

For further information on communication during the data collection
process, see [5.1](5_data-management.md/#51-communication).
