
# 2.2 Passages: the basics 

When you identify a passage that provides evidence for a tie, consider
carefully how much text is useful. Be over-generous with the line
numbers you give so that the user gets the context for the information,
and not just (e.g.) the line or section in which the relevant names
appear. Reuse the same passage for as many ties as reasonably possible.

It's quite common to find that a story is interrupted only to be
finished later. As ever, you should always attempt to create fewer,
fuller ties, so treat both parts of the story as a single episode. If
possible, you should then connect that tie to a passage that extends
across both parts of the story (including whatever interrupted it). If
that is not possible (or the passage created would be far too long) then
create two separate passages and connect them to identical ties that
express the full episode. If you (ever!) think a user might be confused
about what you've done and where all your information comes from,
explain yourself in **Commentary** or
**Note.**

## 2.2.1 Creating a passage in Nodegoat 

If the **Author** does not yet exist in MANTO, you will
need to create it:

* **Name**: Follow house style (see [3.1](3_style_guide.md/#31-house-style)) and existing practice. As a general
 rule, aim to create as concise a name as possible since shorter names
 make the interface easier to read. If the author is pseudonymous, use
 the form Ps-\Name\ (e.g. Ps-Plutarch).

* **Identifier**: Give a word or brief phrase that
 distinguishes the author from those with similar names; e.g.,
 Apollodoros the Mythographer and Apollodoros of Athens. This field is
 not visible in the public interface.

* **Alternative names**: Give alternative forms of the
 author's name; e.g. 'Apollodorus' for Apollodoros; 'Pisander' for
 Peisander. This field is not visible in the public interface but aids
 searchability.

* **Note**: Use to provide further information when
 necessary. This field is not visible in the public interface.

* **Wikipedia**: Give a URL for the text in Wikipedia.
 This will become a clickable link in Nodegoat.

If the **Text** does not yet exist in MANTO, you will need
to create it:

**Author**: Select from existing dataset.

* **Title**: Follow house style (see
3.1(#house-style)) and existing practice. As a general
rule, aim to create as concise a name as possible since shorter names
make the interface easier to read. If the text is commonly known by
just the name of its author (e.g., 'Pausanias', 'Strabo'), leave
blank.

* **Alternative title**: give alternative forms of the
name of the text. This field is not visible in the public interface
but aids searchability. If the text is commonly known by just the name
of the author so you have not entered anything in
* **Title**, add the title of the work here.

* **Wikipedia**: Give a URL for the text in Wikipedia.
This will become a clickable link in Nodegoat.

*The fields that follow assign classifications that allow MANTO's data
to be filtered by place, time, and type of evidence*:

* **Source subtype**: Select any genres from the existing
dataset that could usefully classify this text. Multiple subtypes are
allowed in this field; add all that apply. Do not add to the existing
list unless the subtype will be useful for identifying a reasonably
large group of texts. If no other suitable subtype exists, use "Other
prose" or "Other poetry".

* **Period:** Select only from existing dataset. Select
all periods that could apply.

* **Place of Creation:** This field should only be used
where the text expresses the distinctive storytelling perspective of a
place associated with its creation. It is most likely to be used for
texts written to be performed in a specific place (e.g. Attic
tragedies). Select from existing dataset or create new (see [2.4.4 in Manual](2_practices.md/#244-creating-places-and-landmarks)).
Use the city as the most granular location, or region if the city is
unknown. Multiple entries are allowed in this field.

* **Populates "Places" reversal**

* **Place of Commissioning:** This field should only be
used where the text expresses the distinctive storytelling perspective
of a place associated with its commissioning, and that place does not
already appear in **Place of Creation**. Select from
existing dataset or create new (see [2.4.4 in Manual](2_practices.md/#244-creating-places-and-landmarks)).
Use the city as the most granular location, or region if city is
unknown. Multiple entries are allowed in this field.

* **Populates "Places" reversal**

* **Language**: Select any that apply from the list.

* **Note**: Use to provide further information when
necessary. This field is not visible in the public interface.

* **Commentary:** Record information about the
classifications assigned where necessary.

Now, create your passage:

* **Text**: Select from existing dataset.

* **Prefix Edition:** Use if you need to identify a
particular edition (e.g. for fragments) that is conventionally placed
before the fragment number, e.g. FGH, FGrHist 123, BNJ 123. Follow
existing practice for formatting.

* **Passage:** Enter passage(s) of prose text, line(s) of
poetry, or fragment numbers. Don't abbreviate runs of numbers: use
full references including book number (e.g. 2.123-2.154). For
fragments, use the format 'fr. 5b'; for testimonia, use the
abbreviation 'test.'

* **Edition:** Use if you need to identify a particular
edition (e.g. for fragments) that is conventionally placed after the
fragment number. Give the conventional abbreviation as found in the
*Oxford Classical Dictionary*. When creating an edition, provide
bibliographic details (author, title of work, publisher and year) in
* **Full name.**

The following three fields **[(Alternative Prefix Edition, Alternative
Passage, Alternative Edition)]** allow you to enter a
second set of references that identify the same passage. Follow the
instructions given in the three fields above. The two passages will
display with = between them. E.g.: Hecataios of Miletos fr. 25 Fowler
= FGrHist 1 fr. 25.

* **Scaife URL:** Give a URL for the passage in the Scaife
Viewer. This will become a clickable link in Nodegoat. Link to the
most recent English translation, where available. The lines or passage
numbers should be the same as in **Passage**. This will
become a clickable link in Nodegoat.

* **Non-Scaife URL:** If the text is not in Scaife Viewer,
give a URL to another online translation (or original text if that's
all there is.) This will become a clickable link in Nodegoat.

NB: If you need to add or edit a large number of passages to Nodegoat,
it can be a lot easier to create or edit these in a spreadsheet and
then upload that. There are instructions at
[4.11](4_issues.md/#411-uploading-data-using-a-spreadsheet).
