
# 2.3 Entities: the basics

Entities are the basic, stable components of our database. In theory,
each has its own identity and is clearly distinct from all others.

Your first task is to decide whether an entity should exist in MANTO. We
want our dataset to be comprehensive, but that does not mean that we
need to capture every last thing mentioned in every ancient source.
Equally, we don't create a new entity if we can use an existing one. In
general, we capture all entities that are either:

> (1) mythically significant (i.e. someone might search for them),
> 
> (2) given a distinctive name,
> 
> (3) act as nodes with ties to at least two other entities which
> would not otherwise be (as precisely) connected, or
> 
> (4) required to capture a few historical phenomena

**Agents:** All named characters must be created as entities. Characters
without names can be ignored unless they create connections between
entities that would not be otherwise apparent (i.e. criterion 3). This
happens a lot in genealogies: i.e. to capture the fact that a hero is
the grandson of another, you might have to create an anonymous mother or
father. (For instructions on naming anonymous entities, see
[2.4.1.3](2_practices.md/#2413-anonymous-entities).)

**Objects:** the third criterion ('act as nodes...') is also important
in relation to objects. Where a weapon is mentioned solely as the means
by which one hero kills another, it should not be captured as an entity
since it adds nothing to our relational data except more detail. By
contrast, an object like the [Bow of Heracles](https://manto.unh.edu/viewer.p/60/2616/object/6580-8190312)
(see fig.
[1.1.2 (broken-link)](#figure-1.1.-illustration-of-the-concept-of-mythic-networks-graphic-g.-goodwin))
easily fulfills the third criterion since it has a biography of its own:
Apollo gives it to Heracles, Heracles uses it to kill or wound various
monsters, and Philoctetes inherits it. Objects later preserved as relics
must be captured.

**Collectives:** these should be created as seldom as possible.
Collectives are only useful in MANTO when they represent distinct groups
like siblings with a collective identity (e.g., 'the Daughters of
Proitos'), heroes who come together to achieve a particular purpose
(e.g., 'the Seven Against Thebes') or recognisable species (e.g., 'the
Centaurs'). Large or indistinct groups like 'the Nymphs' should not be
created, but significant groups of nymphs (e.g., the Dictaian Nymphs who
raise Zeus) can be if necessary. Do not create a collective if a place
could easily be used instead (e.g. use 'CADMOS rules THEBES' and not
'CADMOS rules THE THEBANS'.)

**Mythic Events**: these should be created as seldom as possible. Mythic
events are only useful in MANTO when they bring together agents and
collectives who would not be connected in other ways. Do not create an
event if a collective could be used instead (e.g use 'ACHILLES is member
of THE GREEK CONTINGENT AT TROY' rather than creating 'the Trojan War').
We do create events for: (1) one-off games like [the Funeral Games of Patroclos](https://manto.unh.edu/viewer.p/60/2616/object/6580-9744213)
(see [2.8.11](2_practices.md/#2811-competitions) for the reversals these trigger); (2) prominent weddings like that of [Peleus and Thetis](https://manto.unh.edu/viewer.p/60/2616/object/6580-11296614);
(3) events that create damage etc and so are needed to create ties
(e.g., [the Flood of Deucalion](https://manto.unh.edu/viewer.p/60/2616/object/6580-9055626));
(4) events whose protagonist is immortal, and so capturing the event
helps to establish chronological connections amongst other participants
that wouldn't otherwise be apparent (e.g. [the Search of Demeter for Persephone](https://manto.unh.edu/viewer.p/60/2616/object/6580-10215370))

## 2.3.1 Entity types

Your second task is to decide which **Entity Type** you
should create. You can easily identify the type of existing entities by
the emoji in front of their names. (Nodegoat automatically adds these.)

👤AGENTS: Living entities in the *spatium mythicum*: gods, heroes,
monsters, animals.

👥COLLECTIVES: Groups of agents with recognizable collective
identities. E.g. the Amazons, the Greek Contingent at Troy, the
Daughters of Proitos. If the collective doesn't (and will never) have
any agents, add the **Entity Subtype** 'collective
without members'. This sub-categorisation affects the reversals
relating to children and parents.

🏺OBJECTS: Moveable, object-like entities with specific, recognizable
identities said to be present in the *spatium mythicum.* Some were
preserved as relics in the *spatium historicum.* Includes weapons,
clothing, jewelry, body parts, bones of heroes, statues.

🏛️LANDMARKS: Immovable buildings or smaller natural features which are
(typically) fixed in the landscape. Said to be present in the *spatium
mythicum*; some were preserved as relics in the *spatium historicum.*
Includes city walls, buildings, trees, tombs, altars, springs.

🌍PLACES: Geographical locations, whether fictional or real. Includes
regions, cities, areas within cities, sanctuaries, groves, mountains,
rivers.

⭐CONSTELLATIONS: Stars, groups of stars, planets and other heavenly
bodies in the night sky; typically created when a god or hero is
metamorphosed.

⏳ MYTHICAL EVENTS: Significant events in the mythical period with
widespread participation which cannot be captured in other ways.

📅{.mark} HISTORICAL EVENTS: Significant events in the historical
period used to date (e.g.) when relics were moved.

💠HISTORICAL ARTIFACTS: objects and landmarks created in the *spatium
historicum* and captured in MANTO because they depict a mythical
narrative or were associated with historical cult.

When you are deciding which type to use, look at similar entities in the
checked data and think about how you want your entity to be treated by
Nodegoat. **Entity Type** affects which reversals will be
triggered, and which attributes you can assign. Some things to keep in
mind:

-   Agents (and some collectives) are typically the only entities used
    in 'Blood relationship' ties
    (2.8.2(#blood-relationships)).

-   Certain words ('Sword', 'Altar', 'Sheep' etc) will trigger reversals
    in certain entity types (for details, see
    2.4.2-8(#creating-agents-and-collectives)).

-   If the entity is preserved as a relic in the historical period it
    should be either a landmark or an object.

-   A landmark will not (typically) be movable; an object might be.

-   A landmark or historical artifact might be located within another
    landmark, historical artifact, or place. A place might be located
    within another place but would not typically be located within a
    landmark or historical artifact.

-   If your landmark or object didn't exist in the mythic period,
    consider making it a historical artifact instead. If it's not clear
    whether it existed in mythic period, then err on the side of caution
    and make it a landmark or object. Tombs of agents and collectives
    should not be historical artifacts even if you suspect they were
    built in the historical period.

-   Historical artifacts should only be used to capture cult sites and
    depictions.

-   Historical events are only used in timemarks. They should thus not
    appear in 'related entities'.

