
# 2.5 Ties: the basics

Ties take the form of grammatically-standardized sentences. We don't use
them to retell the myth, but to assert connections between entities.

Our data collection process allows for a lot of flexibility and
creativity. That said, we must impose constraints on ourselves if we are
to produce high-quality, useful data that is machine-readable. So,
although our ties are based on the structures of human language, we
create them according to set rules. Don't just rely on the norms of
English grammar!

Data collection for MANTO often requires a bit of lateral thinking and
often checking what has already been done. Here are some key principles
to keep in mind:

## 2.5.1 Comprehensiveness

When you create a tie, you are capturing the fact that all the entities
in the tie appear in the passage (even if unnamed or implicit), and that
there is some kind of connection between them. (These connections are
collected by the 'appears in', 'mentioned in text' and 'related
entities' reversals.)

It is crucial that you make sure you have captured every entity that
appears in a text at least once (see
4.2(#repeating-ties)). You must also make sure that you
have captured some kind of relationship between entities that are
connected somehow in the source. This means that you will want to make
your ties as rich as possible and use prepositions, genitive absolutes,
and purpose clauses to connect together as many entities as you can.

You will often have several options about how you construct your ties.
As a general rule, you should try to put the entities that are most
important in that episode in the first few fields, i.e. in the semantic
triple (subject, direct object, indirect object) and the prepositional
phrases (especially 'in').

## 2.5.2 Specificity

Always consider what the data you are collecting will look like when it
finally appears on the filecards. You should aim to trigger reversals
that will populate all filecard categories and phenomena that are
relevant to that passage. As you become more familiar with the
interactions described below (see
2.8.1-21(#interactions)) you will notice that several
different ties can all be used to trigger the same reversal. This means
that there are often several different ways to create the same end
result. In general, creating fewer ties is better since this makes
checking and revising data easier.

Because you are always trying to trigger reversals with your ties, you
should use ties that don't trigger more specific reversals (like 'is
associated with' or 'is mentioned') only where there are no other
options.

## 2.5.3 Hierarchies

The only exception to the principle of trying to trigger as many
reversals as possible is where actions exist in a kind of 'hierarchy'.
These are clearly identified in the usage notes for interactions in
2.8.1-21(#interactions). So, for example, even though
the interaction 'wounds' does trigger reversals (i.e. 'wounds', 'wounded
by' etc) you should not use it if you can use 'blinds' or 'kills'
instead, because those are more specific and significant actions. This
principle is most apparent when you are capturing data from descriptions
of fights between two heroes: Don't be tempted to try to retell the
narrative using lots of ties; just follow the instructions in
2.8.1-21(#interactions) and capture the most significant
actions.

Because we focus on the most significant actions in myth, MANTO's
dataset does not comprehensively capture all instances of an action even
when we have a tie that seems to describe it. For example, searching for
ties that use 'wounds' will not return all instances of wounding in
Greek myth, because if the wounding involved blinding it would have been
captured using 'blinds', and if the wounded person was later killed by
the attacker, it would have been captured by 'kills'.

## 2.5.3 Consistency

MANTO's 'grammar' is designed to be multi-purpose: it should work well
with many different ancient sources. Because of this, it imposes a kind
of uniformity on the tradition which emphasizes in particular the
outcomes of interactions, and specific kinds of relationships.

This grammar is not designed to capture the styles and concerns of
specific ancient storytellers. In trying to retrieve just the 'facts' of
myth, it tends to smooth out narratological differences. This
information is not lost, since users of MANTO can always access the
ancient versions themselves, but it is not going to appear in the data.
In particular, our methodology is not well suited to expressing the
internal lives of mythic characters, actions contemplated but not
carried out, or ethical judgements added by the storyteller.

Consistency is crucial across such a large project and makes checking
and revising ties much easier. We will frequently encounter the same
episodes in different passages and texts. If you are capturing a story
that has already been captured, try to copy how it was captured
previously if that makes sense in the passage you are working
on---though doubtlessly you will find that some elements may be missing
or altered, while others will need to be added. But keeping a consistent
'kernel' in terms of structure will go a long way in keeping the
structured data clean.