# 2.7 Creating a Tie

All fields are optional except **Passage** and
**Predicate.**

You can place any type of entity in any field. 

## 2.7.1 The Semantic Triple

The basic fields of the tie are as follows: 


#### Source: Passage
> **Source: Passage:** Only one passage is allowed in this
> field. This is a required field. 
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'appears in', 'mentioned in', 'mentions'**


#### Subject
> **Subject:** Multiple entities are allowed in this
> field. If you don't know who carried out a particular action, you can
> leave this field blank. This is a little like constructing a passive
> sentence; e.g. 'BLANK buries AGENT at PLACE' means 'AGENT is
> buried at PLACE'. Only 'passive' uses that are not obvious are noted
> in usage notes.

#### Predicate
> **Predicate:** Only one Interaction is allowed in this
> field. This is a required field. 

#### Direct Object
> **Direct Object:** Multiple entities are allowed in this
> field. Use where the chosen interaction does not require a
> preposition. 

#### Indirect Object (To/For)\
> **Indirect Object (to/for):** Multiple entities are
> allowed in this field. Use where the chosen interaction takes an
> indirect object (see usage notes in
> [2.8 interactions](#28-interactions)).

## 2.7.2 Prepositional Phrases

Usually, you should use whichever preposition makes a comprehensible
sentence, but check usage notes for your chosen interaction in
[2.8 interactions](#28-interactions). Multiple entities are allowed in
each field. 

#### In/On/At
> **In/on/at:** Use to express where an action happens, or
> at which event.

#### Near
> **Near:** Use to express physical proximity. Use only if
> 'in/on/at' is not an option since 'near' is both less specific, and
> involved in many fewer reversals.

#### From
> **From:** Use as instructed in usage notes for
> interactions or to express motion away from.

#### To
> **To:** Use as instructed in usage notes for
> interactions or to express motion towards. Note particularly which
> interactions use **To** and which use **[Indirect Object (to/for)]**.

#### Via
> **Via:** Use as instructed in usage notes for
> interactions or to capture waypoints on a journey. A tie expressing an
> itinerary should be made as rich as possible using
> **Via** to connect stopping points. Capture locations in
> the same order as they are visited in the itinerary being described.

#### While Intending To Go To
> **While intending to go to:** Use where an entity is
> described as intending to make a journey, but only completes part of
> the itinerary.

#### Using
> **Using:** Use to capture the instrument used in an
> interaction. Often this would be more commonly expressed in English
> using 'with' (e.g. 'Heracles kills the Hydra with his
> bow').
> 
> **Where entity in Using is an object, populates filecard categories 'used by', 'used at'.**

#### Of
> **Of:** Use as instructed in usage notes for
> interactions, or where it makes grammatical sense and no other
> preposition could be used.

#### For
> **For:** Use as instructed in usage notes for
> interactions , or where it makes grammatical sense and no other
> preposition could be used. In the context of giving, can mean 'in
> exchange for'. Note particularly which interactions use
> **For** and which use **[Indirect Object(to/for).]**

#### Into
> **Into:** Use only with interactions expressing
> transformations, as noted in the interactions. Do not use to express
> motion towards.

#### Against
> **Against:** Use as instructed in usage notes for
> interactions, or where it makes grammatical sense and no other
> preposition could be used.

#### Concerning
> **Concerning:** Use as instructed in usage notes for
> interactions, or where it makes grammatical sense and no other
> preposition could be used.

## 2.7.3 Genitive absolutes

Multiple **Entities** are allowed in each field. Usually,
you should use whichever phrase makes a comprehensible sentence, but
check usage notes for your chosen interaction in
2.8(#interactions).

#### With The Aid Of
> **With the aid of:** Use in instances where an entity
> (often a god(dess)) helps generally but does not actually partake in
> an interaction.

#### At The Command Of
> **At the command of:** Use to express where an action is
> ordered or requested by a third party.

#### At The the Instigation Of
> **At the instigation of:** Use to express where an
> action is instigated by a third party out of hostility, malice, or a
> desire for revenge.

#### With The Involvement Of
> **With the involvement of:** Use when an entity is
> involved in the action but cannot be connected to it in any other way.
> Use this field to capture where a city is responsible for the fact
> that there is (e.g.) a votive depicting a hero in another place (e.g.
> at Delphi or Olympia).

#### In Accordance With a Prophecy From
> **In accordance with a prophecy from:** Use to express
> the source of a prophecy, which may be the god or a mortal prophet, or
> both. Where the prophecy is from Delphi, use 'the Oracle at Delphi'
> and do not add (e.g.) 'Apollo', 'Pythia'. Use whether or
> not the prophecy is obeyed/understood and regardless of the type of
> prophecy (i.e. oracle, dream, bird signs). See
> [4.3 prophecies-at-delphi](#43-prophecies-at-delphi).

#### In Accordance With a Prophecy About
> **In accordance with a prophecy about:** Use to express
> the subject of a prophecy. Use whether or not the prophecy is
> obeyed/understood and regardless of the type of prophecy (i.e. oracle,
> dream, bird signs). See [4.3 prophecies-at-delphi](#43-prophecies-at-delphi).

## 2.7.4 Purpose Clauses

Multiple **Entities** are allowed in each field. Usually,
you should use whichever phrase makes a comprehensible sentence, but
check usage notes for your chosen interaction in
[2.8 interactions](#28-interactions).

#### To Avenge
> **To avenge:** Use when the subject undertakes an action
> specifically to avenge the death or (perceived) mistreatment of a
> third party.

#### To Aid
> **To aid:** Use when the subject undertakes an action
> specifically to aid a third party.

#### To Obtain
> **To obtain:** Use when the subject undertakes an action
> specifically to obtain an entity.

#### To Protect
> **To protect:** Use when the subject undertakes an
> action specifically to protect a third party.

#### To Honor
> **To honor:** Use when the subject undertakes an action
> specifically to honor a third party.

#### To Thwart
> **To thwart:** Use when the subject undertakes an action
> specifically to hinder or defeat the plans of another entity.

#### To Punish
> **To punish:** Use when the subject undertakes an action
> specifically to punish a third party.

#### And They Conceive
> **And they conceive:** Use with ties expressing sexual
> intercourse.

## 2.7.5 Timemarks

For advice on time in MANTO, see
[4.9 modeling-time-in-manto](#49-modeling-time-in-manto). Timemarks are not
currently visible in the public interface.

The next fields allow us to capture information about when in the
historical period a relic existed, or was moved, or a mythical agent was
claimed as an ancestor or appeared in an epiphany.

If you do not add a timemark to the ties 'is a relic', 'is moved',
'claims as ancestor' 'appears as in an epiphany', it is assumed that the
time when these things happened is the same as the time the source text
was written.

Only objects of the type 'time period' can be used in these fields.
**These do not populate the reversal 'Related entities'.**

#### Timemark: When
> **Timemark: when:** Select the option that best fits the
> situation. Options are: 'during', 'until', 'from the time of',
> 'sometime before', 'sometime after'.

#### Timemark: Historical Event
> **Timemark: historical event:** Must use an object of
> the type 'Time Period' (see [2.7.5.1 creating-historical-events](#3751-creating-historical-events)). Do not create new historical events without consulting Greta and/or Scott. Multiple entities are allowed in this field; if you are not sure when an event took place, add any periods that are possible or use 'Historical Events of Uncertain Date'. Entering more than one entity in this field means either the event spans several periods, or it cannot be more precisely dated.
> 
> Our sources are often vague about when these kinds of events took place.
> Equally, MANTO's system of timemarks cannot express every kind of
> temporal situation precisely. Where necessary, use
> **Commentary** to provide further information.

### 2.7.5.1 Creating historical events 

#### Name
> **Name:** This is a required field. Follow house style
> (see [3.1 house-style](#31-house-style)) and existing practice. Use
> maximal capitalization. Add dates in brackets: e.g. "(ca. 306-610
> CE)".

#### Chronontology URI
> **ChronOntology URI:** chose the most appropriate entity
> from the dataset.

## 2.7.6 Tags

We also capture some basic information about the context of the mythic
data.

#### Data Uncertain
> **Data Uncertain:** Default is 'no'. Select 'yes' if you
> cannot be sure that the data in the tie is correct because there is
> some kind of uncertainty with the source material. This may be because
> a scene allows several different interpretations, there are problems
> with textual transmission, or the author is unclear or allusive on a
> particular point. Where necessary, create separate ties to capture all
> possibilities. Explain the uncertainty in **Note** or **Commentary**.

#### Doubt or Disbelief Expressed
> **Doubt or disbelief expressed:** Default is 'no'.
> Select 'yes' if the author or artist explicitly expresses doubt about
> a narrative tradition or explicitly argues that it is untrustworthy.
> If the author also describes alternatives, use **Alternatives given** as well. Explain the doubt or disbelief in **Note** or **Commentary**.

#### Alternatives Given
> **Alternatives given:** Default is 'no'. Select 'yes' if
> the passage (or another one nearby) gives information that contradicts
> the information given in the tie and so it is clear that the author or
> artist is intending to give variant traditions. Each alternative
> should be captured in a separate tie and tagged with **[Alternatives given]**. Any alternatives that the author or artist
> expresses doubt about should be tagged with **[Doubt or disbelief expressed]** as well. Where the passage chosen does not
> encompass the alternative version, or the discrepancy is not obvious,
> explain it in **Commentary.**

#### Data Implicit
> **Data implicit:** Default is 'no'. Select 'yes' if the
> information in the tie is not explicitly stated, but you have
> logically deduced it from context, or perhaps supplied it from a
> well-known and conventional aspect of the mythical tradition. See
> examples in [4.18 when-to-tag-implicit-data](#418-when-to-tag-implicit-data). Explain
> your decision in **Note** or **Commentary**.

#### Textual Source
> **Textual source:** Multiple passages are allowed. Use
> where an author explicitly attributes information to another text.
> Identify the specific passage or fragment where possible. If the
> passage is already in MANTO, re-use that passage and follow the format
> of the existing tie if possible.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'mentions'**

#### Local Tradition At
> **Local tradition at:** Multiple entities are allowed.
> Use where an author explicitly attributes information to local
> populations. Do not use where the attribution is non-specific (e.g.
> 'they say' or 'it is said'). The entity should be a place: i.e. if
> information is attributed to 'the Athenians', use 'Athens'.

#### Inscription At
>  **Inscription at:** Multiple entities are allowed. Use
> where an author explicitly attributes information to an inscription.
> The entity should be a place, landmark, or object, i.e. the location
> of the inscription.

#### Depicted At
> **Depicted at:** Multiple entities are allowed. Use
> where the source explicitly describes a visual depiction (whether the
> thing or place it is depicted on is real or fictional, historical or
> mythical).
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'has depictions of', 'depictions'.**

