# 2.8 Interactions

Restrictions on the use of each interaction appear in notes next to
them. Unless otherwise specified, any entity can be used with any
interaction. The prepositions typically used with each one are given in
square brackets, but these are not an exhaustive list.

Many interactions trigger reversals when used in particular ways. If the
reversal is not accurate in this context, then do not use that
interaction in that way. (For an explanation of reversals, see
[1.5 reversals-and-filecards](#15-reversals-and-filecards).)

## 2.8.1 Qualities 

#### Has Hybrid Form
> **ENTITY has hybrid form**
> 
> Use where an entity is explicitly said to be a mixture or blending of
> two or more species, e.g. the Centaurs, the Minotaur, Pegasos. Use
> where an entity is both hybrid and monstrous. Use also to capture
> passages where the hybridity of traditionally hybrid creatures is
> explicitly denied and tag with 'Doubt or disbelief expressed'.
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'monstrosity and hybridity'**

#### Has Monstrous Form
> **ENTITY has monstrous form**
> 
> Use where an entity is explicitly said to have some unconventional
> physical characteristic, excluding hybridity, e.g. unusual size,
> single eye (Polyphemos), extra limbs (Hundred-handers). If the
> monstrosity is accompanied by some aspect of hybridity, use 'has
> hybrid form' instead. Use also to capture passages where the
> monstrosity of traditionally monstrous creatures is explicitly denied
> and tag with 'Doubt or disbelief expressed'.
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'monstrosity and hybridity'**

## 2.8.2 Blood relationships

Ties using these interactions typically only involve agents and
collectives.

Blood relationships are exceptions to the usual rule that we try to make
each tie as rich as possible. Do not add prepositions, genitive
absolutes or purpose clauses to these interactions. If an episode of
childbirth is described, use 'is born', or 'gives birth' as well.

#### Is Child Of
> **ENTITY1 is child of ENTITY2**
> 
> If ENTITY1 is a collective that already has Children of:
> ENTITY2 as an attribute, do not enter that information again in this
> tie.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'son/daughter/child of', 'children of', 'mother/father of', 'parents of', 'has children with'**

#### Is Sibling Of
> **ENTITY is sibling of ENTITY**
> 
> Use only where you cannot use 'is child of', with the name(s) of the
> parent(s) implied.

#### Is Twin Of
> **ENTITY is twin of ENTITY**
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'twin of'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'mythic twins'**

#### Is Mother By Parthenogenesis
> **ENTITY1 is mother by parthenogenesis of ENTITY2**
> 
> Use where a mother conceives her offspring on her own. Do not use if
> the father is simply unknown.
>
> **Populates filecard categories 'son/daughter/child of', 'mother of', 'gives birth by parthenogenesis to'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'parthenogenesis', 'unusual births'**

#### Has No Children
> **ENTITY has no children**
> 
> Use only where an agent is explicitly said to have died childless

#### Is A Decendant Of
> **ENTITY is a descendant of ENTITY**
> 
> Use only where the exact relationship between two agents is not
> apparent and cannot be extrapolated from data elsewhere (even by the
> creation of anonymous figures). These relationships are difficult to
> code accurately so might not be able to be included in visualizations.
> For descendants in historical period, use 'is claimed as ancestor'.

* **Populates filecard category 'descendant of'**

#### Is Claimed as Ancestor
> **ENTITY1 is claimed as ancestor** [in/on/at ENTITY2]
> 
> Use only where the person or group making the claim exists in the
> historical period. Do not use where an historical figure (e.g.
> Alexander the Great) claims to have a god for a parent. Use with a
> timemark; if the timemark is left empty, the claim to ancestry was
> being made at the time when the passage was written.

## 2.8.3 Relationships by marriage

#### Is Spouce Of
> **ENTITY1 is spouse of ENTITY2**
> 
> If a more detailed episode is described, use 'marries' or 'gives in
> marriage'.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'wife/husband of'**

#### Marries
> **ENTITY1 marries ENTITY2**
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'wife/husband of'**

#### Gives In Marriage
> **ENTITY1 gives in marriage ENTITY2** [indir. obj. ENTITY3]
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'wife/husband of'**
#### Offers In Marriage
> **ENTITY1 offers in marriage ENTITY2** [indir. obj. ENTITY3]
> 
> Use where a marriage did not take place, or to capture (e.g.) the
> place the marriage arrangement was made. If the marriage takes place
> later, use 'marries' or 'is spouse of' as well.


## 2.8.4 Birth

Use only if childbirth episode is described, or other entities need to
be captured in relation to it. Otherwise use one of the 'blood
relationships' interactions in 2.14.2.

#### Is Born
> **ENTITY1 is born** [in/on/at ENTITY2] [from ENTITY3] [with involvement of ENTITY4]
> 
> Use where location of birth is significant, or episode of birth is
> significant and mother is not identified (if she needs to be captured,
> use 'gives birth'). ENTITY3 will be something which does not typically
> give birth (e.g. 'the Head of Medousa', 'the Eggs of Leda'). ENTITY4
> is an agent that causes ENTITY1 to be born by (e.g.) scattering
> dragon's teeth.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'born at', 'born from', 'place of birth of', 'from which is created'.**

* **Triggers phenomenon 'unusual births' if 'from' is used**

#### Gives Birth
> **ENTITY1 gives birth** [indir.obj. ENTITY2] [in/on/at ENTITY3]
> 
> This tie does not trigger genealogical reversals; use 'is child of'
> (etc) as well.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'born at', 'place of birth of'**

#### Is Born By Autochthony
> **ENTITY1 is born by autochthony** [in/on/at ENTITY2]
> 
> Autochthons are agents and collectives who are born out of the earth
> without the involvement of parents. Capture only explicit instances of
> autochthony. Do not capture these as children of Ge / Gaia. ENTITY2
> should typically be a region or city. If the birth is from an object
> (etc) use 'is born [from]'.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'born at', 'place of birth of'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'autochthons', 'unusual births'**

#### Comes Into Being
>  **ENTITY1 comes into being**
> 
> Use where an entity spontaneously comes into existence, e.g. Gaia,
> Chaos etc in Hesiod's *Theogony*. Use 'is born by autochthony' if the
> entity is born from the earth in a place.
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'comes into being at the beginning of the world', 'unusual births'**

## 2.8.5 Death

#### Kills
> **ENTITY1 kills ENTITY2** [using ENTITY3]
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'dies at', 'place of death of', 'killed by', 'kills',**
> 
> **If 'using' contains an object or landmark, populates 'killed by' and 'used to kill'**

#### Dies
> **ENTITY dies**
> 
> Use only when more specific ties (e.g. 'kills' or 'dies by suicide')
> are not appropriate.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'dies at', 'place of death of'**

#### Dies By Suicide
> **ENTITY dies by suicide**
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'dies at', 'place of death of'**
> 
> **If 'using' contains an object or landmark, populates 'used to kill'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'deaths by suicide'**

#### Dissapears
> **ENTITY disappears**
> 
> Use when an agent disappears rather than dies.
> 
> **Populates filecard category ' disappears at'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'disappearing heroes'**

#### Mourns
> **ENTITY mourns ENTITY**

#### Resurrects
> **ENTITY resurrects ENTITY**
> 
> Use where one agent returns another to life. Where the resurrection
> involves an agent bringing another formerly-living agent back from the
> Underworld, use 'ENTITY takes ENTITY from THE UNDERWORLD').
>
> TODO: Extra Paren
>
> **Populates filecard category 'resurrected at', 'resurrected by'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'resurrected heroes'**

#### Has Post-Mortem Existence
> **ENTITY has post-mortem existence** [in/on/at]
> 
> Use where an agent is described as existing after death in some form
> (e.g. on the Isles of the Blessed) or appears as a ghost in the
> terrestrial realm.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'has post-mortem existence at'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon**

#### Buries
> **ENTITY1 buries ENTITY2** [in/on/at ENTITY3]
> 
> Use only where an agent disposes of a body after death. Use even when
> the body is not literally buried but (e.g.) placed on a funeral pyre.
> Use 'hides' where an object is buried in earth for safekeeping, etc.
> ENTITY3 should be a place or landmark (e.g. 'the Tomb of Achilles').
> Where the tomb is a relic in historical period, use also 'is a relic'.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'buried at', 'buried by', 'burial place of'**

* **ENTITY recovers the body of ENTITY** [from] [to]

* **ENTITY has cenotaph** \in/on/at\

Use in the form \'AGENT has cenotaph at PLACE\' (* **not**
\'PLACE has cenotaph of AGENT\'). Use where tomb is specifically said
not to include a body; where a body is present, use 'buries' above.
Where the cenotaph is a relic in historical period, use also 'is a
relic'.

* **Populates filecard categories 'cult sites', 'cult site of'**

## 2.8.6 Roles and non-familial relationships 

Most of the interactions in this category have similar interactions in
other categories (e.g. 'is prophet' / 'gives prophecy' etc.) We use the
interactions listed in this category where the role is considered
integral to an entity's identity, or the entity is described primarily
in terms of the role but not described as necessarily performing the
action. Typically these ties populate filecard categories, whereas the
other ties do not.

#### Is Slave
> **ENTITY1 is slave** [of ENTITY2]
> 
> Use where the agent's primary identity is as slave of another; 'sells
> as slave' also exists to capture the specific action, especially
> where the state of slavery is not permanent. 'Wins as warprize' also
> exists. See [2.8.12 capturing-enslaving-imprisoning](#2812-capturing-enslaving-imprisoning).
> **Populates filecard category 'enslaved to'**

#### Is Charioteer
> **ENTITY is charioteer** [of]
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'charioteer of'**

#### Is Herald
> **ENTITY1 is herald** [of ENTITY2] [in/on/at]
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'herald of', 'herald at'**

**If ENTITY2 is a collective, populates filecard categories 'includes',
'belongs to'**

#### Is Helmsman
> **ENTITY1 is helmsman** [of ENTITY2]
>
> **Populates filecard category 'helmsman of'**
> 
> **If ENTITY2 is a collective, populates filecard categories 'includes', 'belongs to'**

#### Is Lawgiver
> **ENTITY is lawgiver** [in/on/at ENTITY]
>
> **Populates filecard categories 'lawgiver at'**

#### Is Healer
> **ENTITY1 is healer** [of ENTITY2]
> 
> Use 'heals' to capture the specific action.
> **Populates filecard categories 'healer of'**
> 
> **If ENTITY2 is a collective, populates filecard categories 'includes', 'belongs to'**

#### Is Nurse
> **ENTITY1 is nurse** [of ENTITY2]
> 
> Use where an infant is cared for by someone who is not the parent
> ('nurses' also exists to capture the specific action).
> **Populates filecard category 'nurse of'**

#### Is Teacher
> **ENTITY1 is teacher** [of]
> 
> Use 'teaches' to capture the specific action\
> **Populates filecard category 'teacher of'**

#### Is Priest
> **ENTITY1 is priest** [of ENTITY2] [in/on/at ENTITY3]
> 
> ENTITY2 should be the divinity ENTITY2 is priest of; ENTITY3 should be
> temple or sanctuary. For more specific ritual interactions, see
> [2.8.15 ritual-interactions](#2815-ritual-interactions).
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'priest/priestess of', 'priest/priestess at'**

#### Is Divine Patron
> **ENTITY is divine patron** [of]
> 
> Use where a god or goddess has a particularly close relationship with
> a hero or place.
> **Populates filecard category 'divine patron of'**

#### Is Prophet
> **ENTITY1 is prophet** [of ENTITY2] [in/on/at]
> 
> ENTITY2 should be the agent or collective to whom ENTITY2 gives
> prophecies, and/or the deity that the prophecies come from. Where an
> agent is prophet of Apollo at Delphi, put 'Apollo' in 'of' field, and
> 'the Oracle of Apollo (Delphi)' in 'in/on/at' field. 'Gives
> prophecy' and 'grants power of prophecy' also exist (see
> [2.8.15 ritual-interactions](#2815-ritual-interactions)).
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'prophet of', 'prophet at'**
> 
> **If ENTITY2 is a collective, populates filecard categories 'includes', 'belongs to'**

## 2.8.7 Names and Transformation 

#### Is Eponym
> **ENTITY is eponym of ENTITY**
> 
> An eponym is the hero(ine) after whom a place is named. Where eponym
> is also founder or ruler, use 'founds as eponym' or 'rules as eponym'.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'eponym of', 'eponym'**

#### Derives Etymology
> **ENTITY1 derives etymology** [from ENTITY2]
> 
> Use where etymology is not a simple case of eponymy. ENTITY2 should
> have significance for the etymology even if that significance is not
> immediately clear from the names. Explain the connection in
> **Commentary** where necessary.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'derives etymology from'**

#### Names
> **ENTITY1 names ENTITY2** [to honor ENTITY3]
> 
> Use where ENTITY2 has no previous name, e.g. the first naming of
> cities. ENTITY3 is what ENTITY2 is named after. If ENTITY2 has an
> eponym or etymology, capture that in a separate tie as well.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'named by'**

#### Changes Name To
> **ENTITY1 changes name to ENTITY2** [to honor ENTITY3]
> 
> Use where ENTITY1's name changes, but there you cannot capture an
> entity that does the renaming. (Where ENTITY1 is given a new name by
> someone else, use 'changes name of'.) ENTITY3 is what ENTITY2 is named
> after. Where the name change happens during deification, use 'becomes
> immortal' instead. If ENTITY2 has an eponym or etymology capture that
> in a separate tie as well. This interaction does not
> populate the filecard categories 'alternative name' and 'alternative
> name for'.

#### Changes Name of
> **ENTITY1 changes name of ENTITY2** [ind.obj. ENTITY3] [to honor
> ENTITY4]
> 
> Use where ENTITY1 changes the name of ENTITY2, which already has a
> name. ENTITY4 is what ENTITY3 is named after. Where the name change
> happens during deification, use 'becomes immortal' instead. If
> ENTITY3 has an eponym or etymology capture in a separate tie as well.
> This interaction does not populate the filecard
> categories 'alternative name' and 'alternative name for'.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'named by'**

#### Is Alternative Name For
> **ENTITY1 is alternative name for ENTITY2**
> 
> Use where it is specifically asserted that two names refer to the same
> entity, or where the usage in the passage suggests this connection. If
> one of the entities is an 'alternative name' entity (see
> [2.4.1.1 alternative-name-entities](#2411-alternative-name-entities)), make that one
> ENTITY1. Where the alternative name is used specifically in a
> particular place, use the 'local tradition at' field. This interaction
> does not populate the filecard categories 'alternative
> name' and 'alternative name for'.

#### Metamorphoses
> **ENTITY1 metamorphoses ENTITY2** [into ENTITY3]
> 
> ENTITY2 undergoes metamorphosis; ENTITY1 (usually a god) directly
> instigates the process. Capture ENTITY3 only where it exists as an
> entity in MANTO. This tie will always have a direct object: where an
> agent metamorphoses themselves or the instigator of the metamorphosis
> is not identified, use 'is metamorphosed'. Any actions done by ENTITY2
> in metamorphosed form should be captured against the original identity
> if the metamorphosis is later reversed.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'transformed into', 'transformed from'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'metamorphosis'**

#### Is Metamorphosed
> **ENTITY1 is metamorphosed** [into ENTITY2]
> 
> ENTITY1 undergoes metamorphosis. Capture ENTITY2 only where it exists
> as an entity in MANTO. This tie should be used where an agent
> metamorphoses themselves or the instigator of the metamorphosis is not
> identified. Where a direct instigator is identified, use 'is
> metamorphosed'. Any actions done by ENTITY1 in metamorphosed form
> should be captured against the original identity if the metamorphosis
> is later reversed.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'transformed into', 'transformed from'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'metamorphosis'**

#### Makes Immortal
> **ENTITY1 makes immortal ENTITY2** [into ENTITY3]
> 
> ENTITY2 is made immortal; ENTITY1 directly instigates the process.
> Capture ENTITY3 only where it exists as an entity in MANTO. If no
> instigator is identified, use 'becomes immortal'
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'transformed into', 'transformed from'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'mortals who become gods'**

#### Becomes Immortal
> **ENTITY1 becomes immortal ENTITY2**
> 
> ENTITY1 is made immortal. Capture ENTITY3 only where it exists as an
> entity in MANTO. If an instigator of the process is identified, use
> 'makes immortal'.
>
> TODO: Entity3 typo
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'transformed into', 'transformed from'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'mortals who become gods'**

#### Takes Form Of
> **ENTITY1 takes form of ENTITY2**
> 
> Use where ENTITY1 (typically a god) temporarily takes on the form of
> another entity. Actions performed by that entity when in disguise
> should be captured against ENTITY1.

#### Invents
> **ENTITY1 invents ENTITY2**
> 
> Use where ENTITY1 creates ENTITY2 as a fictional persona either to
> serve as an alias, or to be used in made-up stories. Where ENTITY1
> creates a physical person (e.g. Pandora), use 'creates'.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'invents', 'created by'**

## 2.8.8 Friendly interactions

#### Helps
> **ENTITY helps ENTITY**
> 
> Use only if action is not captured by a more specific interaction.

#### Requests Help
> **ENTITY requests help** [from]
> 
> Use also to capture supplication and prayer.

#### Heals
> **ENTITY heals ENTITY**
> 
> 'Is healer of' also exists. 'heals' does not populate
> filecard category 'healer of'.

#### Purifies
>  **ENTITY purifies ENTITY**
> 
> Purification is a ritual act used to relieve guilt, an affliction, or
> a curse. For medical treatment, use 'heals'.

#### Bathes
> **ENTITY bathes**
> 
> Use to capture one entity bathing another (i.e. ENTITY1 bathes
> ENTITY2), an entity bathing (ENTITY1 bathes in/on/at ENTITY2) or
> someone being bathed by an unknown entity ([BLANK] bathes ENTITY1).

#### Raises
> **ENTITY raises ENTITY**
> 
> Use where a child or adolescent is raised, especially by a
> step-parent. For raising of the dead, use 'resurrects'. 'Nurses' and
> 'is nurse of' exists for relationships to infants.

#### Nurses
> **ENTITY nurses ENTITY**
> 
> Use where an infant is fed. 'Is nurse of' also exists. 'Nurses' [does not] populate filecard category 'nurse of').
> 
> TODO: Extra Paren

#### Teaches
> **ENTITY teaches ENTITY**
> 
> 'Is teacher of' also exists. 'Teaches' does not populate
> filecard category 'teacher of')
>
> TODO: Extra Paren

#### Hosts
> **ENTITY hosts ENTITY**
> 
> Use only if action is not captured by a more specific interaction.

#### Visits
> **ENTITY visits ENTITY**
> 
> Use only if action is not captured by a more specific interaction.

#### Protects
> **ENTITY protects ENTITY** [from]
> 
> Use only if action is not captured by a more specific interaction.

## 2.8.9 Hostile Interactions

#### Hinders
> **ENTITY hinders ENTITY**
> 
> Use only if action is not captured by a more specific interaction.

#### Mistreads
> **ENTITY mistreats ENTITY** [using]
> 
> Use only if action is not captured by a more specific interaction.
> 
> **If 'using' contains an object or landmark, populates filecard category 'used to harm'**

#### Decieves
> **ENTITY deceives ENTITY**
> 
> Use only if action is not captured by a more specific interaction.

#### Plots Against
> **ENTITY plots against ENTITY**
> 
> Use only if 'at the instigation of' or 'to punish' are not appropriate.

#### Pursues
> **ENTITY pursues ENTITY** [from] [to] [via]

#### Hunts
> **ENTITY hunts ENTITY**
> 
> Use only in instances of hunting an animal. 'Pursues' also exists.

#### Punishes
> **ENTITY punishes ENTITY** [in/on/at] [using]
> 
> **If 'using' contains an object or landmark, populates filecard category 'used to harm'**
> 
> **If 'in/on/at' contains 'the Underworld' or 'Tartaros', populates filecard category 'has post-mortem existence at'**
> 
> **~~Triggers phenomenon 'people punished in the underworld'~~**

#### Curses
> **ENTITY curses ENTITY**
> 
> Use where 'punishes' is not appropriate.

#### Abandons
> **ENTITY abandons ENTITY**
> 
> Use also in instances of abandonment or divorce of a spouse. For
> throwing away an object, use 'discards'.

#### Exposes
> **ENTITY exposes ENTITY**
> 
> Use only where a child is left out to die.
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'children exposed'**

#### Drives Insane
> **ENTITY drives insane ENTITY**

#### Tests
> **ENTITY tests ENTITY**
> 
> Use only if action is not captured by a more specific interaction.

## 2.8.10 Physical Altercations

Where action occurs in the context of competition, use interactions
listed under [2.8.11 competitions](#2811-competitions); see also
interactions in
[2.8.12 capturing-enslaving-imprisoning](#2812-capturing-enslaving-imprisoning).

Verbal altercations are listed under
[2.8.14 conversations](#2814-conversations).

For advice on collecting data related to fights, see
[2.5.3 hierarchies](#253-hierarchies).

#### Fights
> **ENTITY fights ENTITY**
> 
> Use only in the context of physical fights. Use only if 'kills',
> 'wounds', 'captures' are not appropriate. For places, use 'attacks'
> instead.

#### Wounds
> **ENTITY1 wounds ENTITY2** [using ENTITY3]
> 
> If ENTITY2 is subsequently killed by ENTITY1, use 'kills' instead. Use
> only if 'blinds' is not appropriate. ENTITY3 is typically a weapon
> that exists as an entity in the dataset.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'wounded by' (both subject and 'using')**
> 
> **If 'using' contains an object or landmark, populates filecard category 'used to harm'**

#### Defeats
> **ENTITY1 defeats ENTITY2** [using ENTITY3]
> 
> Use where ENTITY1 wins, but ENTITY2 is not killed. ENTITY3 is
> typically a weapon that exists as an entity in the dataset. Use only
> if 'wounds' or 'captures' is not appropriate. For places, use
> 'conquers', or 'destroys' instead.

#### Blinds
> **ENTITY1 blinds ENTITY2** [using ENTITY3]
> 
> Use without subject where ENTITY2 is said to be blind but the blinding
> is not described. ENTITY3 is typically a weapon that exists as an
> entity in the dataset.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'blinded by' (both subject and using)**
> 
> **If 'using' contains an object or landmark, populates filecard category 'used to harm'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'blinded heroes'**

#### Attacks
> **ENTITY attacks ENTITY**
> 
> Use only if action is not captured by a more specific interaction.

## 2.8.11 Competitions

Where action occurs in the context of combat use interactions listed
under [2.8.10 physical-altercations](#2810-physical-altercations).

Only create games as entities where they are one-off events. See
[2.4.6 creating-mythical-events](../2-4.md/#246-creating-mythical-events) and
[4.7 panhellenic-games](#panhellenic-games). For regular competitions like
the Olympic, Isthmian, Nemean, Pythian games or prominent regional
games, use 'in/on/at PLACE' instead.

#### Competes
> **ENTITY competes** [for] [against] [in/on/at]
> 
> **If 'in/on/at' contains an event, populates filecard categories 'competitors', 'competes in'**

#### Wins in Competition
> **ENTITY1 wins in competition ENTITY2** [against ENTITY3] [in/on/at
> ENTITY4]
> 
> ENTITY2 is the prize; ENTITY3 is the defeated opponent; ENTITY4 is the
> place or event at which the competition occurs. Where ENTITY2 is also
> a war prize won in competition, use 'wins as war prize' or 'is slave
> as well.
> 
> **If 'in/on/at' contains an event, populates filecard categories 'competitors', 'competes in'**

#### Establishes Games
> **ENTITY1 establishes games** [in/on/at ENTITY2] [to honor ENTITY3]
> 
> Use to capture the first instance of a regular event (e.g. the
> Olympic, Isthmian, Nemean, Pythian games or prominent regional games).
> ENTITY2 is the location of the event; ENTITY3 is the god or hero
> honored. If the games exists as an event, use 'holds'.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'games established by', 'establishes games at'**

#### Holds Games
> **ENTITY1 holds games** [in/on/at ENTITY2] [to honor ENTITY3]
> 
> Use to capture a regular event (e.g. the Olympic, Isthmian, Nemean,
> Pythian games or prominent regional games). ENTITY2 is the location of
> the event; ENTITY3 is the god or hero honored. To capture the first
> instance of these games, use 'establishes games'. If the games exists
> as an event, use 'holds'.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'games held by', 'holds games at'**

#### Holds (event)
> **ENTITY1 holds EVENT** [to honor ENTITY3]
> 
> ENTITY3 is the god or hero honored. If the games is not captured as an
> event (e.g. the Olympic, Isthmian, Nemean, Pythian games or prominent
> regional games) use 'holds games'.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'held by', 'holds', 'held to honor'**

## 2.8.12 Capturing, Enslaving, Imprisoning

#### Imprisons
> **ENTITY imprisons ENTITY**

#### Sells as Slave
> **ENTITY1 sells as slave ENTITY2** (ind. obj. ENTITY 3)
> 
> ENTITY2 is the enslaved agent. Both ENTITY1 and ENTITY3 are enslavers.
> 'Is slave of' and 'wins as war prize' also exist.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'enslaved to'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'people enslaved'**


#### Wins as War Prize
> **ENTITY1 wins as war prize ENTITY2**
> 
> Use only in the context or aftermath of war. 'Sells as slave' and 'is
> slave of' also exist.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'enslaved to'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'people enslaved'**

#### Abducts
> **ENTITY abducts ENTITY**
> 
> Use only in the context of amorous desire. 'Captures' and 'rapes' also
> exist.

#### Captures
> **ENTITY1 captures ENTITY2**
> 
> If ENTITY2 is subsequently enslaved, use 'wins as war prize'. If the
> thing captured is a place, use 'conquers', or 'destroys'.

#### Ransoms
> **ENTITY1 ransoms ENTITY2** [from ENTITY3]
> 
> ENTITY1 pays a ransom. 'Releases' also exists.

#### Releases
> **ENTITY1 releases ENTITY2** [ind.obj. ENTITY3] [from]
> 
> Use where 'ransoms' is not appropriate.

#### Rescues
> **ENTITY rescues ENTITY** [from]
> 
> If the rescue involves retrieval from the Underworld, use 'takes'.

#### Guards
> **ENTITY guards ENTITY**
> 
> Use also where animals are being herded.

## 2.8.13 Sexual Relations

#### Has Sex With
> **ENTITY1 has sex with ENTITY2** [in/on/at ENTITY3] [and they conceive ENTITY4]
> 
> Use only where 'rapes', 'attempts to rape' are not accurate. ENTITY4 is the resulting offspring.
> 
> **When 'in/on/at' and 'and they conceive' are used, populates filecard categories 'conceived at', 'place of conception of'**
> 
> **When 'and they conceive' is used, populates filecard categories 'son/daughter/child/ children of', 'mother/father of', 'has children with'**

#### Desires
> **ENTITY desires ENTITY**
> 
> Use only if action is not captured by a more specific interaction.

#### Rapes
> **ENTITY1 rapes ENTITY2** [in/on/at ENTITY3] [and they conceive ENTITY4]
> 
> Use in instances of explicit sexual assault; otherwise, use
> 'abducts' or 'has sex with'. ENTITY4 is the resulting offspring.
> 
> **When 'in/on/at' and 'and they conceive' are used, populates filecard categories 'conceived at', 'place of conception of'**
> 
> **When 'and they conceive' is used, populates filecard categories 'son/daughter/child/ children of', 'mother/father of', 'has children with'**

#### Attempts to Rape
> **ENTITY attempts to rape ENTITY**
>
> Use only where the attempt fails.

## 2.8.14 Conversations 

#### Speaks in Assembly
> **ENTITY speaks in assembly** [of COLLECTIVE] [in/on/at PLACE]

#### Puts on Trial
> **ENTITY1 puts on trial ENTITY2**
> 
> Use to capture all kinds of legal interactions
> **Populates filecard category 'place of trial of'**

#### Threatens
> **ENTITY threatens ENTITY**

#### Insults
> **ENTITY insults ENTITY**
> 
> Use in context of verbal insults. Where an agent acts in a generally
> insulting way, use 'offends'.

#### Offends
> **ENTITY offends ENTITY**
> 
> Use only if the action is not captured by a more specific interaction.
> Use to capture a mortal acting offensively towards (esp.) a god(dess)
> by (e.g.) not giving sacrifices.

#### Quarrels With
> **ENTITY quarrels with ENTITY**
> 
> Use only if action is not captured by a more specific interaction

#### Warns
> **ENTITY warns ENTITY** [against]

#### Pledges Oath With
> **ENTITY1 pledges oath with ENTITY2** [against ENTITY3] [with the
> involvement of ENTITY4]
> 
> ENTITY4 should be gods (etc) invoked to witness the oath.

#### Performs
> **ENTITY performs [in/on/at] [for] [using]**
> 
> Capture the content of the song (etc) in a separate tie.
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'mythic performers'**

## 2.8.15 Ritual interactions

Note: 'is priest' and 'is prophet' appear in
[2.8.6](#286-roles-and-non-familial-relationships).

For prayer or supplication, use 'requests help' in
[2.8.8](#288-friendly-interactions).

#### Makes Sacrifice
> **ENTITY1 makes sacrifice** [of ENTITY2] [ind.obj. ENTITY3] [using
> ENTITY4]
> 
> ENTITY2 is the thing sacrificed; ENTITY3 is the god or hero sacrificed to.
> 
> **If ENTITY2 is an agent, populates filecard categories 'dies at', 'place of death of', 'killed by', 'kills'**
> 
> **If ENTITY2 is an agent, and ENTITY4 is an object or landmark, populates 'killed by', 'used to kill'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'human sacrifices'**

#### Dedicates
> **ENTITY1 dedicates** **ENTITY2** [ind.obj. ENTITY3]
> 
> ENTITY2 is a votive, and typically an object; ENTITY3 is the god or
> hero to which it is dedicated. If the votive is not an entity in
> MANTO, use 'makes sacrifice'.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'dedicated at', 'dedicated by'**

#### Establishes Cult
> **ENTITY1 establishes cult** [of ENTITY2] [in/on/at ENTITY3] [from ENTITY4]
> 
> If cult to ENTITY2 already exists at ENTITY3, use 'develops cult'
> instead. ENTITY4 is the place rituals etc are brought from. Use
> 'creates', 'dedicates' etc to capture specific objects and landmarks
> as well.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'cult site of' 'cult sites'**
> 
> **If ENTITY3 contains 'sanctuary', 'oracle' or 'grove', populates filecard category 'cult established by', 'creates'**

#### Develops Cult
> **ENTITY1 develops cult** [of ENTITY2] [in/on/at ENTITY3]
> 
> Use where an agent expands, improves or popularizes a pre-existing
> cult of ENTITY2 at ENTITY3. Use 'creates', 'dedicates' etc to capture
> specific objects and landmarks as well.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'cult site of', 'cult sites'**

#### Has Cult Site
> **ENTITY1 has cult site** [in/on/at ENTITY2]
> 
> ENTITY1 is an agent or collective; ENTITY2 is a landmark or place. You
> do not need to capture cult sites dedicated to Olympian gods,
> Heracles, Asclepios, Demeter, Persephone, and personifications that
> have no connection to the *spatium mythicum*.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'cult site of', 'cult sites'**

#### Initiates Into Cult
> **ENTITY1 initiates into cult** **ENTITY2** [of ENTITY3] [in/on/at ENTITY4]
> 
> ENTITY2 is the agent who is initiated; ENTITY3 is the god or hero whose
> cult it is.

#### Gives Special Gift
> **ENTITY1 gives special gift** [ind. obj. ENTITY2]
> 
> ENTITY1 is a divine figure who bestows a special gift upon a mortal,
> which is not an entity in MANTO (e.g. the first grapevine). 'Grants
> superhuman power' also exists.

#### Grants Superhuman Power
> **ENTITY1 grants superhuman power** [ind.obj. ENTITY2]
> 
> ENTITY1 is a divine figure who grants a superhuman power to ENTITY2.
> ENTITY2 must be a hero or heroine and not (e.g.) a monster, animal, or
> object. Where ENTITY2 has superhuman power but no god is identified as
> granting it, use '[BLANK] grants power [ind.obj. ENTITY2]. Where
> the power is specifically said to be prophecy, use 'grants power of
> prophecy'.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'granted superhuman power by'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'superhuman powers'**

#### Grants Poer of Prophecy
> **ENTITY1 grants power of prophecy** [ind.obj. ENTITY2]
> 
> ENTITY1 is a divine figure who grants the power of prophecy to
> ENTITY2. Where ENTITY2 is described as being granted prophetic power
> but no god is identified as granting it, use '[BLANK] grants power
> of prophecy [ind.obj. ENTITY2]'. 'Is prophet' and 'gives prophecy'
> also exist.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'granted power of prophecy by'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'superhuman powers'**

#### Gives Prophecy
> **ENTITY1 gives prophecy** [ind.obj. ENTITY2]
> 
> ENTITY1 is the source of the prophecy, either the god or the prophet
> or both. If the prophecy is given at Delphi and comes from Apollo,
> ENTITY1 should be 'Oracle of Apollo' (see
> [4.3](../../4.%20Issues/4_issues.md/#43-prophecies-at-delphi)).

#### Appears in an Epiphany
> **ENTITY1 appears in an epiphany** [ind.obj. ENTITY2] [in/on/at ENTITY3]
> 
> Where the epiphany occurs in the historical period, use 'appears as an
> epiphany in the historical period'.

#### Appears in an Epiphany in the Historical Period
> **ENTITY1 appears in an epiphany in the historical period [in/on/at ENTITY2]**
>
> TODO: Fix ENTITY3 to be ENTITY2
> 
> ENTITY3 is the location where the epiphany occurred. Use with a
> timemark; if the timemark is left empty, the epiphany occurred when
> the passage was written. Where the epiphany occurs in the mythical
> period, use 'appears in an epiphany'.

## 2.8.16 Possession, creation, usage, and gifting

#### Possesses
> **ENTITY possesses ENTITY**
>
> Use only if not captured by a more specific interaction.

#### Creates Humans
>  **ENTITY creates humans**
> 
> Use only where an entity creates humankind. Where an entity creates a
> specific human (e.g. Pandora), use 'creates'.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'humans created onsite by'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'creators of humans'**

#### Creates
> **ENTITY1 creates ENTITY2** [from ENTITY3]
> 
> ENTITY3 is something which ENTITY1 uses to create ENTITY2. Where
> ENTITY2 is a sanctuary, use 'establishes cult'; where ENTITY2 is a
> fictional agent, use 'invents'.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'created at', 'created by', 'creates', 'created from', 'from which is created'**
> 
> **If ENTITY2 contains 'walls', 'gate', populates filecard category 'fortified by'.**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'creators of humans' if ENTITY2 is a collective or agent**

#### Destoys
> **ENTITY destroys ENTITY**
> 
> Where ENTITY2 is also conquered, use 'conquers' as well.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'destroyed by'**

#### Damages
> **ENTITY1 damages ENTITY2**
> 
> Use only if 'destroys' is not appropriate.

#### Discards
> **ENTITY discards ENTITY2**
> 
> ENTITY2 is typically an object. 'Abandons' exists for agents.

#### Consumes
> **ENTITY consumes ENTITY**
>
> Use in contexts of eating and drinking.

#### Takes
**ENTITY takes ENTITY** [from] [to] [via]

#### Gives
> **ENTITY1 gives** **ENTITY2** [ind.obj. ENTITY3] [for ENTITY4]
> 
> If the thing given is not an entity in MANTO, use 'gives something'.
> Where ENTITY2 is a kingdom, use also 'rules', 'succeeds' etc to
> trigger reversals. ENTITY4 is something given in exchange. 'Gives in
> marriage', 'grants power (of prophecy)', 'gives special gift',
> 'dedicates' also exist.

#### Gives Something
> **ENTITY1 gives something [ind. obj. ENTITY2]**
> 
> Use only where the thing given is not an object in MANTO; otherwise,
> use 'gives'.

#### Offers
> **ENTITY offers ENTITY** [ind.obj.]
> 
> Use only if the offer is not accepted, or promised but never
> delivered. 'Offers in marriage' also exists.

#### Hides
> **ENTITY hides ENTITY** [from]
>
> Use either to capture an entity hiding another, or an entity hiding
> him or herself (i.e. ENTITY hides [BLANK]). For disappearances
> analogous to death, use 'disappears'; for the hiding of bodies in the
> ground, use 'buries'.

## 2.8.17 Collectives and Groups

Agents can also be enrolled as members of collectives using 'is herald,
'is helmsman', 'is healer', 'is prophet' (see [2.8.6](#286-roles-and-non-familial-relationships)).

Sub-groups can be nested inside larger collectives using the entity
attribute **Part of**. Where an agent is a member of a
subgroup, they will also appear in the filecard categories 'belongs to'
and 'includes' in relation to the larger collective.

#### Leads
> **ENTITY1 leads ENTITY2 ENTITY2 must be a collective.**
> **Populates filecard categories 'led by', 'includes', 'leader of', 'belongs to'**

#### Assembles
> **ENTITY assembles ENTITY**

#### Is Member Of
> **ENTITY1 is member of ENTITY2**
> 
> ENTITY1 is typically an agent; ENTITY2 is always a collective. Use to
> express membership of agents in collectives. If the collective is a
> group of siblings (e.g. "the Children of Niobe"), you will need to
> also create a "is child of" tie.
> **Populates filecard categories 'includes', 'belongs to'**

## 2.8.18 Rulership and Landownership

#### Rules
> **ENTITY1 rules ENTITY2** [for ENTITY3] [from ENTITY4]
> 
> ENTITY2 should be a place. Where a king or kingdom is strongly
> associated with both a region and a capital city within that region,
> give both as ENTITY2 (E.g. 'Pandion rules Athens, Attica'). ENTITY3 is
> a minor or absent ruler for whom ENTITY1 acts as regent. ENTITY4 is a
> place outside of ENTITY2 where ENTITY1 rules from. Where an entity
> leads a collective, use 'leads'. Where a ruler is also eponym, use
> 'rules as eponym'. 'Succeeds' also exists.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'ruled by', 'ruler of' (both d.obj and 'from' are places ruled)**

#### Rules As Eponym
> **ENTITY1 rules as eponym ENTITY2** [for ENTITY3] [from ENTITY4]
> 
> ENTITY2 should be a place for which ENTITY1 is both ruler and eponym.
> ENTITY3 is a minor or absent ruler for whom ENTITY1 acts as regent.
> ENTITY4 is a place outside of ENTITY2 where ENTITY1 rules from. This
> interaction is a shortcut; it is equivalent to creating two separate
> ties ('rules' and 'is eponym of').
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'ruled by', 'ruler of', 'eponym of', 'eponym'**

#### Succeeds
> **ENTITY1 succeeds ENTITY2** [in/on/at ENTITY3]
> 
> ENTITY1 and ENTITY2 are successive rulers of ENTITY3, which should be
> a place. 'Gives' can also be used to express kingship. Where a king or
> kingdom is strongly associated with both a region and a capital city
> within that region, give both as ENTITY3 (E.g. 'Pandion succeeds
> Cecrops in/on/at Athens, Attica').
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'ruled by', 'ruler of' (both sbj and obj are rulers)**

#### Founds
> **ENTITY1 founds ENTITY2** [from ENTITY3]
> 
> Use only for founding of cities. For regions, islands etc use
> 'settles'. For sanctuaries, use 'establishes cult'. ENTITY3 is where
> ENTITY1 comes from. Capture details of eponym, naming etc in separate
> tie(s)
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'founder of', 'founded by', 'founded from'**

#### Founds As Eponym
> **ENTITY1 founds as eponym ENTITY2** [from ENTITY3]
> 
> Use only for founding of cities where ENTITY1 is both founder and
> eponym of ENTITY2. For regions, islands etc use 'settles'; for
> sanctuaries, use 'establishes cult'. ENTITY3 is where ENTITY1 comes
> from. This interaction is a shortcut; it is equivalent to creating two
> separate ties ('founds' and 'is eponym of').
>
>**Populates filecard categories 'founder of', 'founded by', 'founded from', 'eponym of', 'eponym'**

#### Conquers
> **ENTITY1 conquers ENTITY2**
> 
> Where ENTITY2 is also destroyed, use 'destroys' as well.
>
> **Populates filecard categories 'conquered by'**

#### Settles
> **ENTITY1 settles ENTITY2** [from ENTITY3]
> 
> ENTITY2 should be a region or area, perhaps already inhabited, which
> is settled by ENTITY1. ENTITY3 is where ENTITY1 comes from. 'Conquers'
> also exists. Use 'founds' for cities. Where ENTITY1 is also eponym of
> the region, use 'is eponym of' as well.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'settles', 'settled by', 'settled from'**

## 2.8.19 Connections to places

#### Resides
> **ENTITY1 resides** [in/on/at ENTITY2] [near]
> 
> If ENTITY2 is not a landmark, use only if action is not captured by a
> more specific interaction. If ENTITY2 is a landmark, use only for
> (semi-)permanent residence there.
> 
> **If 'in/on/at' contains a landmark, populates filecard categories 'dwelling', 'dwelling of'**

#### Is Depicted
> **ENTITY is depicted** [Depicted on: ENTITY2] [with the involvement
> of ENTITY3]
> 
> ENTITY2 is the thing or place on or at which the depiction is
> displayed. Use also for depictions created in the historical period.
> ENTITY3 is the place that commissioned or was otherwise involved in
> the creation of the object displayed at ENTITY2 (typically used where
> a city dedicates a votive at Delphi or Olympia). You do not need to
> capture depictions of Olympian gods, Heracles, Asclepios, Demeter,
> Persephone, and personifications unless there is clear narrative
> content or they are included in a grouping that seems significant in
> some way.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'has depictions of', 'depictions'.**

####  Is a Relic
> **ENTITY is a relic** [in/on/at]
> 
> Use where a mythic object or landmark is described as surviving in the
> historical period, or an animal is so long-lived that it was born in
> the mythic period and encountered in the historical period. Use with
> an historical timemark; if the timemark is left empty, the relic was
> in existence when the passage was written.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'survives as a relic at', 'relics preserved on site'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'preserved relics'**

#### Is Moved
> **ENTITY1 is moved** [from ENTITY2] [to ENTITY3]
>
> ENTITY1 is a mythic relic moved during the historical period from
> ENTITY2 to ENTITY3. Use with a timemark; if the timemark is left
> empty, the relic was being moved when the passage was written.
> **Populates filecard categories 'moved in the historical period from/to', 'survives as a relic at', 'relics preserved on site' (places drawn from both 'to' and 'from' fields)**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'preserved relics'**

#### Is Entrance To
> **ENTITY1 is entrance to ENTITY2**
>
> Use only to capture entrances to the Underworld. ENTITY2 must be 'the
> Underworld'.
> 
> **Populates filecard categories 'serves as entrance to' and 'entrances:'**
> 
> **Triggers phenomenon 'entrances to underworld'**

#### Flows Into
> **ENTITY1 flows into ENTITY2**
>
> Both ENTITY1 and ENTITY2 are waterways, typically rivers or springs. Use only where they are said to flow into or out of one another against geographical accuracy.
>
> **Populates filecard category 'flows into or out of'**
>
> **Triggers phenomenon 'impossible waterways'**

#### Fortifies
> **ENTITY fortifies ENTITY**
>
> When walls and gates exist in MANTO as fortifications (see
> 2.4.4(#creating-places-and-landmarks)), use 'creates'
> instead.
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'fortified by'**

## 2.8.20 Movement

#### travels
> **ENTITY1 travels** [from ENTITY2] [to ENTITY3] [via ENTITY4]
>
> Use to capture complex travel itineraries in the mythical period with
> ENTITY4 used to capture stops along the route in order; use if action
> is not captured by a more specific interaction (e.g. 'visits',
> 'migrates').

#### goes past
> **ENTITY1 goes past ENTITY2**
>
> Use where ENTITY1 does not visit or stop at ENTITY2.

#### Crosses
> **ENTITY1 crosses ENTITY2**
>
> Use where ENTITY1 crosses ENTITY2, which will be a specific waterway.

#### Shipwrecks
> ENTITY1 shipwrecks ENTITY2 [in/on/at ENTITY3] [while intending to go to ENTITY4]
>
> ENTITY1 causes the shipwreck; ENTITY2 is shipwrecked (including the
> vessel if it is an entity in MANTO). ENTITY4 is the place ENTITY2 was
> heading towards. Where no god (etc.) is identified as causing the
> shipwreck, use '[BLANK]' shipwrecks '[ENTITY]'.
>
> **Triggers phenomenon 'shipwrecks'**

#### Sends
> **ENTITY sends ENTITY** [against] [from] [to] [via]

#### Expels
> **ENTITY1 expels ENTITY2** [from ENTITY3] [to ENTITY4]

#### Searches For
> **ENTITY searches for ENTITY** [in/on/at] [from] [to] [via]

#### Flees
> **ENTITY flees** [from] [to] [via]

#### Encounters
> **ENTITY1 encounters ENTITY2**
>
> Use only if action is not captured by a more specific interaction.
> Both ENTITY1 and ENTITY2 should typically be agents or collectives.

#### Migrates
> **ENTITY migrates** [from] [to]
>
> Use where an entity changes their homeland in a (semi-)permanent
> manner (e.g. a woman is born into a family from one region and marries
> into a family in another) and the action cannot be captured by a more
> specific interaction.

## 2.8.21 Miscellaneous, disambiguation and conflation

#### Is Associated With
> **ENTITY is associated with ENTITY**
>
> Use only if not captured by a more specific interaction.

#### Is Mentioned
> **ENTITY1 is mentioned**
> 
> Use where there is no other entity in MANTO to connect ENTITY1 to.
> These ties should only have subject and predicate. Particularly useful
> when collecting data from fragments, where sometimes a name appears
> with no context.

#### Is Conflated With
> **ENTITY is conflated with ENTITY**
>
> Use where two entities that are ontologically distinct in MANTO are
> said to be the same entity. When a mythic entity is identified in the
> historical period, use 'is identified \as\'. When the context is the
> syncretism of Greek and non-Greek entities, use 'Non-Greek entity'
> is identified as 'Greek entity' (see [4.4](4_issue.md/#44-syncretism-of-gods-and-goddesses))
>
> **Populates filecard category 'sometimes conflated with'**

#### Is Identified As
> **ENTITY1 is identified as ENTITY2**
>
> ENTITY1 is a mythic entity; ENTITY2 is an historical entity. 'Is
> identified [in/on/at]' also exists.
>
> **Populates filecard category 'identified as'**

#### Is Identified
> **ENTITY1 is identified** [in/on/at] ENTITY2 [near]
>
> ENTITY1 is a mythic entity; ENTITY2 is an historical entity. 'Is
> identified as' also exists
> 
> **Populates filecard category 'identified in' (only on sbj's filecard)**

#### Is Identified As
> **[Non-Greek entity] is identified as [Greek entity]**
>
> Use to capture syncrecism of Greek and non-Greek deities and heroes.
> See [4.4](4_issues.md/#44-syncretism-of-gods-and-goddesses).
>
> **Populates filecard category 'identified as'**
>
> **Triggers phenomenon 'syncretism'**

#### Is Located
> **ENTITY is** **located** [in/on/at] [near]
>
> Use to express topographical relationships which are not ontologically
> stable enough to be captured as attributes of the entity itself. Often
> used to express relationships between mythical places (e.g. locations
> within the Underworld). Use 'is identified \as\' where a mythic
> entity is identified in the historical period.

#### Is Contemporary Of
> **ENTITY is contemporary of ENTITY**
>
> Use only where no other interaction captures the fact that two agents
> or collectives belong to the same generation.

#### Is Compared To
> **ENTITY is compared to ENTITY**
>
> Use where a passage directly compares the qualities of two otherwise
> unrelated entities, and no other interaction can be captured.